DX Guide: Using Organization Slugs in URLs (#1664)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/organizations/org-slugs-in-urls.mdx

---

> title: 'Use organization slugs in URLs'

Author: e438200dc3f5ea7ba13ea2f41cc9a1c477787191

description: Learn how to use organization slugs in URLs to manage the active Clerk organization.
---

<TutorialHero
  beforeYouStart={[
    {
      title: "Set up a Next.js + Clerk app",
      link: "/docs/quickstarts/nextjs",
      icon: "nextjs",
    },
    {
      title: "Enable organizations for your instance",
      link: "/docs/organizations/overview",
      icon: "globe",
    }
  ]}
  exampleRepo={[
    {
      title: "Sync org with URL demo",
      link: "https://github.com/clerk/orgs/tree/main/examples/sync-org-with-url"
    }
  ]}
>

>   - Allow users to choose an organization slug
>   - Include an organization slug in your URLs
>   - Render organization-specific content

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Allow users to choose an organization slug
  - Include an org slug in your URLs
  - Render org-specific content
```

>   - Render organization-specific content

Author: Fixed! 0425c1301084c7f21199941fcda09eff5262f096

    (auth, req) => {
      // Add your middleware checks
    },
    {
      organizationSyncOptions: {
        organizationPatterns: ['/orgs/:slug', '/orgs/:slug/(.*)'],
        personalAccountPatterns: ['/me', '/me/(.*)'],
      },
    },
  )

  export const config = {
    matcher: [
      // Skip Next.js internals and all static files, unless found in search params
      '/((?!_next|[^?]*\\.(?:html?|css|js(?!on)|jpe?g|webp|png|gif|svg|ttf|woff2?|ico|csv|docx?|xlsx?|zip|webmanifest)).*)',
      // Always run for API routes
      '/(api|trpc)(.*)',
    ],
  }
  ```

  ### Build a component

  Now that `clerkMiddleware()` is configured to activate orgs, you can build an org-specific page.

  First, handle cases where the middleware can't activate the org based on the URL. This occurs if no org with the specified slug exists, or if the given user isn't a member of the org. When this happens, the middleware won't change the active org, leaving the previously active one unchanged. For troubleshooting, a message will also be logged on the server:

  > Clerk: org activation handshake loop detected. This is likely due to an invalid org ID or slug. Skipping org activation.

>   > [!CAUTION]
>   > It is ultimately the responsibility of the page to ensure that it renders the appropriate content for a given URL, and to handle the case where the expected org is not active. In this case, we detect the actual org slug as a NextJS [Dynamic Route](https://nextjs.org/docs/pages/building-your-application/routing/dynamic-routes) param, and compare it to the active org slug. If they don't match, we render an error message and the [`<OrganizationList />`](/docs/components/organization/organization-list) component to allow the user to select a valid org.
> 
>   The following example demonstrates how to handle the case where the active org slug doesn't match the URL slug:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  It is ultimately the responsibility of the page to ensure that it renders the appropriate content for a given URL, and to handle the case where the expected org **isn't** active. In the following example, the org slug is detected as a NextJS [Dynamic Route](https://nextjs.org/docs/pages/building-your-application/routing/dynamic-routes) param, and compared to the active org slug. If they don't match, an error message is rendered and the [`<OrganizationList />`](/docs/components/organization/organization-list) component allows the user to select a valid org.
```

---
title: Use organization slugs in URLs
description: Learn how to use organization slugs in your application URLs to manage and switch between active Clerk organizations.
---

<TutorialHero
  beforeYouStart={[
    {
      title: "Set up a Next.js + Clerk app",
      link: "/docs/quickstarts/nextjs",
      icon: "nextjs",
    },
    {
      title: "Enable organizations for your instance",
      link: "/docs/organizations/overview",
      icon: "globe",
    }
  ]}
  exampleRepo={[
    {

>       title: "Set up org slugs in URLs app",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      title: "Demo app",
```

            afterSelectOrganizationUrl="/orgs/:slug" // Navigate to the org's slug after selecting  it
            afterSelectPersonalUrl="/me" // Navigate to the personal account after selecting it
          />
        )
      }
      ```
    </Tab>

    <Tab>
      ```tsx {{ filename: 'app/organization-list/[[...organization-list]]/page.tsx', mark: [[6, 10]] }}
      import { OrganizationList } from '@clerk/nextjs'

      export default function OrganizationListPage() {
        return (
          <OrganizationList
            hideSlug={false} // Allow users to customize the org's URL slug
            hidePersonal={false} // Allow users to select their personal account
            afterCreateOrganizationUrl="/orgs/:slug" // Navigate to the org's slug after creating an org
            afterSelectOrganizationUrl="/orgs/:slug" // Navigate to the org's slug after selecting it
            afterSelectPersonalUrl="/me" // Navigate to the personal account after selecting it
          />
        )
      }
      ```
    </Tab>
  </Tabs>

  ## Configure `clerkMiddleware()` to set the active organization

  > [!TIP]

>   > If your app doesn't use `clerkMiddleware()`, or you prefer to manually set the active organization, use the client-side [`setActive()`](/docs/references/javascript/clerk/session-methods) method to control the active organization via the client-side. See [this guide](/docs/guides/force-organizations#set-an-active-organization-based-on-the-url) to learn how to manually activate a specific organization based on the URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > If your app doesn't use `clerkMiddleware()`, or you prefer to manually set the active organization, use the [`setActive()`](/docs/references/javascript/clerk/session-methods) method to control the active organization on the client-side. See [this guide](/docs/guides/force-organizations#set-an-active-organization-based-on-the-url) to learn how to manually activate a specific organization based on the URL.
```

  - Include an organization slug in your URLs
  - Render organization-specific content
</TutorialHero>

Organization slugs are human-readable URL identifiers that help users reference which organization they're working in. A common pattern for organization-scoped areas in an application is to include the organization slug in the URL path.

For example, a B2B application named "Petstore" has two customer organizations: **Acmecorp** and **Widgetco**. Each organization uses its name as a slug in the URL:

- **Acmecorp**: `https://petstore.example.com/orgs/`**`acmecorp`**`/dashboard`
- **Widgetco**: `https://petstore.example.com/orgs/`**`widgetco`**`/dashboard`

Alternatively, [organization IDs](/docs/references/javascript/organization/organization#properties) can be used to identify organizations in URLs:

- **Acmecorp**: `https://petstore.example.com/orgs/`**`org_1a2b3c4d5e6f7g8e`**`/dashboard`
- **Widgetco**: `https://petstore.example.com/orgs/`**`org_1a2b3c4d5e6f7g8f`**`/dashboard`

### When to use organization slugs

This feature is intended for apps that **require** organization slugs in URLs. **Adding slugs to URLs isn't recommended unless necessary.**

> **Use** organization slugs if:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use organization slugs if:
```

  }
  ```

  ### Build a component

  Now that `clerkMiddleware()` is configured to activate orgs, you can build an org-specific page.

  First, handle cases where the middleware can't activate the org based on the URL. This occurs if no org with the specified slug exists, or if the given user isn't a member of the org. When this happens, the middleware won't change the active org, leaving the previously active one unchanged. For troubleshooting, a message will also be logged on the server:

>   > Clerk: org activation handshake loop detected. This is likely due to an invalid org ID or slug. Skipping org activation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > Clerk: Organization activation handshake loop detected. This is likely due to an invalid organization ID or slug. Skipping organization activation.
```
